Intro to Rust MOOC Section 1 (#37)
w3f/w3f-education: docs/Rust/section1/what-is-rust.md

title: What is Rust?
sidebar_label: What is Rust?
description: An introduction to what the Rust programming language is, and how it compares to other languages.
---

> Rust is a systems programming language aimed to empower its users with high-level, ergonomic code while also maintaining a level of control akin to a language like C.  It is meant to empower and give confidence to whoever is writing it and guarantee secure and reliable output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rust is a systems programming language aimed to empower its users with high-level, ergonomic code while also maintaining a level of control akin to a language like C.  It is meant to empower and give confidence to whoever is writing it and guarantee secure and reliable executable code.
```

It combines the best of object-oriented and functional programming concepts into one single language.  Rust is **statically typed**, focuses on code and memory safety, and has a powerful memory management system that eliminates the need for a garbage collector.

## Learning Rust for Substrate

> In this course, we'll learn to program in the Rust programming language with a specific focus on the aspects of Rust that are used in the Substrate Blockchain framework. We do not assume any existing knowledge of Rust and will start from the beginning. However, we assume some general familiarity with programming and that you are fluent in at least one other programming language. If you are brand new to programming, starting with Rust is possible, but this course may be faster-paced for a beginner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this course, we'll learn to program in the Rust programming language with a specific focus on the aspects of Rust that are used in the Substrate Blockchain framework. We do not assume any existing knowledge of Rust and will start from the beginning. However, we assume some general familiarity with programming and that you are fluent in at least one other programming language. If you are brand new to programming, starting with Rust is possible, but this course may be too fast-paced for a beginner.
```
